Good morning.
Thank you all for coming.
I'm Michael Hopkins.
I'm with the Core Audio Engineering team.
And today we'll be talking about
music on both iOS and Mac OS X.
We'll be covering four main topics,
the first of which is how to use
audio units to do audio processing.
We'll talk about a specific audio unit,
the audio unit sampler.
We'll be talking about how to
do MIDI on your iOS device.
And finally,
we'll be playing back music sequences.
Mac OS X as well as iOS provide
a wide range of facilities for
developers making music applications.
These can range from the simple
soundboard application to a more complex
application that edits musical content.
This hypothetical example that
you see here on the screen is one
that's geared more at live playback.
We have on your left-hand
side a file player,
which is playing back
content stored on disk.
We have two live inputs,
a guitar and a microphone.
These inputs are each going
through an audio processing effect,
kind of like a guitar
stomp box that you'd have.
We also have a music device
that is playing a MIDI,
triggering samples on an
electric piano sampler.
Each of these inputs in turn
is going through a mixer,
which is changing the relative
volumes of each track,
doing something different.
Mac OS X as well as iOS
and Mac OS X feature a
state-of-the-art audio engine,
enabling a wide range of facilities for
developers making music applications.
These can range from the simple
soundboard application to a more
complex application that edits
musical content stored on disk.
Mac OS X as well as iOS provide
a wide range of facilities for
developers making music applications.
These can range from the
simple soundboard application
to a more complex application,
doing something different.
changing the relative
volumes of each track,
doing some panning,
combining all that audio,
and outputting it to the speaker.
So now let's talk about how
to make such an application.
It seems very daunting and complex,
but actually one of the fundamental
building blocks for doing such processing
is available for you on Mac OS X and iOS,
and that's the audio unit.
This is a plug-in architecture
for processing audio.
It is very low latency and
designed for real-time input,
output, or simultaneous input and output.
These audio units can be
organized in an audio unit graph,
and they can be controlled
via properties and parameters,
which do things such as set
the sample rate of the unit.
And on the desktop, Mac OS X,
they can be controlled by the
user with a user interface,
and we'll see that in a bit.
There are several types of audio units
that ship as part of Mac OS X and iOS.
These include effects units,
which do things such as apply
a delay effect to audio.
We have music effects, which are similar,
except that they also allow the
input of MIDI data to control
how that audio is rendered.
We have instruments,
such as the new sampler unit,
which we'll be showing you a bit later.
We have generators, which take no input.
They simply generate an output signal,
such as a sine wave generator.
We have panner units,
such as our 3D panners,
which spatialize audio
into a 3D environment.
We have converter units for
taking audio from one format
and converting it to another.
Mixers.
Offline effects, which do play a role in
the sound of the audio.
We have processing that can't
be accomplished in real time,
such as an audio unit that takes
a file and reverses its contents,
playing it backwards,
revealing satanic messages
in our favorite '70s rock.
We have output units.
And now that we've talked about
these different types of units,
I'd like to discuss
organizing them in a graph.
We have something called an AU graph,
and these audio units can be added
and organized in this structure.
Each item, as shown in my example,
is an AU node,
and in this example we have a
microphone input going to a reverb unit,
and then the output from that
reverb is going to the output.
This graph is defining the topology
and the connections between
each audio unit in the graph.
Finally,
I'd like to point out that the graph
must end with a single output unit,
as shown here.
These graphs can be
made much more complex.
I've now modified the example
to show that we can additionally
have a MIDI device that
is going to an instrument,
and then the audio is passing through
two separate effects units before
being combined by the mixer unit
and then output to the output unit.
Now when we go back to our diagram of
our hypothetical audio application,
we can see that this very complex
behavior is actually being managed by
the host application by using an AU graph
with several specific audio units.
For example, the file player unit is
handling file playback.
A distortion unit is taking the input
from our guitar and modifying it.
The reverb unit is being
connected to the microphone input.
A sampler unit is what's playing
those MIDI-triggered samples.
And all these are going through a
mixer unit before going to the output.
Now that I've given a bit
of background on this,
it's important to understand how we
can interact programmatically with
these audio units on the system.
There are two main ways.
The first is properties,
and these are key value pairs.
The properties allow a host
to configure specific states,
such as sample rate or stream format.
and Michael Kahn.
These properties are set on the
audio unit and take effect when
the audio unit is initialized.
And then finally,
parameters are designed to change
the way that that real-time
processing is accomplished.
For example,
in the case of a delay effect,
we may want to change in real-time
our delay time or feedback amount.
Typically, parameters are set
through a user interface,
as I'll show in my demo shortly.
I'd now like to take a look at AU Lab,
which is our reference host
application running on Mac OS X.
And we're going to take a
look at an example document,
which contains a graph that is
configured in the manner that
we saw in the slides previously.
We have a microphone track.
That's input coming from the microphone.
And we have some meters that allow us
to monitor the input coming through.
Exactly like our diagram,
that's going through a
matrix reverb effect.
And then that track has a
panner and a volume control.
This is actually in the mixer unit.
And when we change the UI here,
we're actually changing how the
mixer is panning and setting
the volume of that track.
We have our guitar track
with a distortion effect,
a sampler, and then the file player.
The file player is
configured to play a file.
And I'd like to audition
that for you now.
Whoa.
Wake all of you up, I hope.
Okay, so that's the file that we're
playing back in our file player.
Now I'm going to add some
effects to that track.
And when I'm doing this,
I'm just adding additional
nodes in that graph that this
host application is running.
So I'm going to go ahead and I'm
going to choose a distortion effect.
As you can see in this pop-up menu,
this allows me to pick
both a type of effect.
In this case,
we can have converters or panners.
I'm going to choose an effect.
These effects are
grouped by manufacturer.
So that all of Apple,
for example's effects are
grouped in the same location.
I'm going to pick an effect.
This is the distortion unit.
And what you see here is a generic,
excuse me, is a custom view,
which is a very elaborate user
interface that allows the end user
to interact with that audio unit.
And when I go ahead and change the delay,
for example, of the distortion unit,
dragging this control changes the
parameters of that audio unit.
So let me go ahead and pull up a
generic view of that same audio unit
so you can see what's going on here.
This AU distortion unit has
several groups of parameters.
It has a delay group,
a ring modulation group,
a decimation group, etc.
And each of these groups
has related parameters,
which are specified by
the name of the parameter.
They have a minimum and a maximum value,
a current value,
which is editable by this slider.
You'll also notice that as I'm
changing that parameter value,
that the custom view,
which is looking at the same audio unit,
is showing that change in real time.
And that also happens
the other way as well.
You'll notice that with a custom view,
I'm able to control two different
parameters simultaneously,
because this view allows me to do it.
X and Y and not just operate
on a single parameter.
So let's go ahead and hear the
effect of this audio unit now.
Ooh, that sounds horrible.
Bypass.
And now applying the effect.
You can really hear that
ring modulator working.
Now, at any time,
I can add more audio units to this chain
just by selecting another audio unit.
And in this case,
I'm going to choose a filter.
Now the audio is going from the
distortion effect through the filter,
and using the custom view,
I can change the
The audio, now I have a really,
I've really cut out the high
frequencies of that audio file.
So although these custom
views are available in AU Lab,
we can use them in any
other host application,
such as Logic or GarageBand.
So that's an important distinction.
All right.
Go back to slides.
That was AU Lab.
With iOS version 5,
we've now taken a lot of these
audio units that you've just seen
running on the desktop and made
them available to developers.
These include several new effects,
such as some filters,
the high-pass and low-pass.
We have a peak limiter.
We have a dynamics processor that
allows you to do some compression.
And a new reverb unit,
which is very high quality,
so it's great to use in your application.
We have additionally
some time pitch effects.
The VeraSpeed, which does only pitch,
and then SimpleTime and
NotQuiteSoSimpleTime,
which allow you to change
time and pitch independently.
The difference being that the
NotQuiteSoSimpleTime version
is higher quality at the
expense of higher CPU usage.
We have two new generators,
a file player,
as well as a scheduled slice player,
which allows you to play
back snippets of audio,
schedule them from any
thread for rendering later.
And then finally, we have an AU sampler,
which we'll talk about in
greater detail in a bit.
So that's how audio units are used.
But how can you as a developer take
advantage of them in your application?
Well, first of all,
you need to know how to find
and load those audio units.
When I talk about an audio unit,
I'm talking specifically about
an instance of an audio unit.
And that's created from something
called an audio component.
The audio component is a factory,
which knows how to create
those audio unit instances.
Each component is uniquely identified
by an audio component description,
which has three key fields: a type,
a subtype, and a manufacturer.
The type is the type of effect.
In this case, AUFX stands for effect.
And then the subtype and
manufacturer are provided by
the creator of that audio unit.
There's also a name,
which the host maybe will use to display,
and a version.
So there's an audio component API,
which can be used to find
the load and do management on
the state of that audio unit.
It's available on both iOS and Mac OS X.
And on the desktop,
it replaces the component manager,
while maintaining backwards
compatibility with older components.
Let's look at how that
works in an application.
This is identical on both the desktop
as well as our mobile platforms.
An application first needs to
find a specific audio unit,
and it does that by creating
an audio component description.
It passes that component description
to the audio component system by
calling audio component find next.
The audio component system then
looks through its list of audio
components and returns the matching
component back to the application.
The application can then create
an audio unit instance by calling
audio component instance new,
passing that component
along to the system,
which will then return
back an audio unit.
Let's look at more detail about
the audio component Find Next Call.
And there are a couple of
additional pieces of information
I'd like to provide here.
The first is that the
first argument can be null,
to specify that we want to start
looking in that list at the beginning.
Or if we want to iterate
through several components,
we can provide a specific component
after which search will begin.
We have the facility
for wildcard searches,
which would allow you to say,
find all instances of effects.
In order to do that,
we would zero out all fields
in our component descriptor,
except for the component type.
Audio components are registered
on the system in two main ways,
the first of which is statically.
The system at boot time will look
through all the bundles in these
three specific directory locations,
four bundles with a specific extension,
and then those audio
units will be loaded.
Components can also be
registered at runtime.
When you use audio
component register to do so,
that component becomes private
to your application process.
So it's not a system-wide component.
In order to make that call,
you provide a description for the
component that you're registering,
a name, a version,
and a factory function.
and Michael Hopkins, Doug Scott,
and Michael Hopkins,
Looking into a bit more detail
about how the audio component
system works under the hood,
as I showed earlier,
all audio components have an
audio component factory function,
and this is used to create
instances of that component.
It returns a pointer to an audio
component plug-in interface structure.
This structure has
three function pointers.
The first two are open and close,
which are used to open and close,
surprisingly, that component.
And then we have a lookup function
pointer that takes a selector.
We'll examine this in a
bit more detail shortly.
Now when our application is calling
audio component instance new,
what's actually happening is
that the system is getting that
component factory function,
and then getting the audio component
plug-in interface by calling that.
That audio component plug-in
interface contains a function
pointer to the open method,
which is then called,
and that open method returns
an instance of an audio unit,
which goes back to the application.
Now let's say, for example,
that application has
taken that audio unit,
added it into a graph, initialized it,
and then is ready to render.
The application calls audio unit render.
The audio component
system gets the component,
looks up the factory function,
gets the plug-in interface,
gets a function pointer
to the lookup method,
which then it provides the selector
K audio unit render select.
And then the function pointer for
render is returned by the lookup method,
which is then called by the system.
That's all I have for audio units.
I'd now like to call up Doug Scott,
who will be speaking about
the sampler audio unit.
Doug?
Good morning.
I'm Doug Scott.
I am also a member of the
Core Audio Engineering team.
And I'd like to talk to you in some
detail about the new sampler audio unit
that Michael mentioned a minute ago.
If you remember the diagram
that Michael showed,
this is the location of the
sample unit in that diagram.
What makes this sampler an instrument
type is that it sits at the top of any
branch of an audiograph and generates
audio in response to commands that are
sent to it via the music device API,
such as note-ons, note-offs,
and anything that might change
the quality of that sound,
like adjusting the volume
and things of that sort.
What makes this a sampler is
that it organizes a set of audio
files that you provide it by,
it organizes them and shapes them
and organizes them into a coherent,
playable instrument.
Examples of this might be a drum kit,
where you've loaded a set of sampled
percussion sounds to various places
on the keyboard and then play them
back either together or individually.
Or perhaps you're creating a very fancy
acoustic piano where you've loaded a
complete range of samples from end to
end on the keyboard and want to play
that back as if it were a real piano.
Or you could just have an arbitrary set
of sound effects that you want to be able
to trigger in a game or an application.
Some of the features of the new sampler
are it accepts samples in any of the
formats that our audio library supports,
which includes compressed formats.
It shares any sample resources across
all instances of the sampler that
are present in your application.
And files that exceed a certain size
are automatically streamed for you.
So what this means is that you
can have a fairly large body of
sample content within the sampler,
but have a fairly low memory footprint
because you're not spending a lot of
time duplicating or storing information.
in memory.
In addition,
the sampler has a very lightweight
preset format stored as a text file,
a plist file actually,
which makes it very easy to
transfer that from your desktop
where you can audition and create,
as we will see in a few minutes,
to other desktop machines or into
your iOS application or game.
The structure of the sampler is
such that it provides an extremely
flexible instrument design,
which allows you to create anything
from the most bare-bones instrument that
plays a single sound on a single key,
all the way to incredibly rich
and complex instrumental timbres,
all depending upon the needs
of your particular application.
And in addition,
this sampler has the capability of
translating both DLS and SoundFont 2
preset format into its own native format,
which allows you to work with the huge
existing body of designed instruments
as a starting place before you begin
working on your own custom designs.
Let's look a little bit about how
the sampler patch is organized.
What we have is a hierarchy of zones and
layers where each level of the system
is dependent upon the layer above it.
At the bottom, we have zones.
Zones represent the way in which any
individual audio file in the system
is going to be played back within
the context of the entire instrument.
That includes information
about its root key,
in other words,
where it plays without any transposition,
the range of keys over
which that sample will play,
the range of velocities
over which it will play,
plus information specific to how that
sample is going to be played back,
involving looping,
perhaps if you wanted to do some
fixed gain or detuning to make
it match your other samples,
that's all available to
be set there as well.
And there's many other properties
that I can't even get into
here that are available there.
The layer, besides being a collection
of the zones below it,
is also the place where all of what we
often call articulation data is provided,
which means anything that
modifies the quality of the sound,
such as filters,
LFOs that might be controlling
frequency or amplitude,
envelopes, of course,
which can control various
other things in the system.
All of this is defined
at the layer level.
Like I said,
all the modulation connections.
Additionally, there are other parameters
here specific to the layer,
such as the ability to select --
to determine how your zones are
being selected when they're picked,
and an offset which allows you to affect
all the zones which are present below it.
And there's several other things -- many
other things you can do here as well.
The instrument is the top level.
It's a collection of the layers.
It doesn't expose any parameters
or properties at this time,
but it is also the place where
all of the samples that are
referenced by your patch are kept.
Here's an example of a simple patch.
We have a single layer
with multiple zones in it.
The layer extends the entire
length of the keyboard,
and the zones basically divide up that
keyboard space into four equal parts.
Here's the behavior of the sampler if a
note on is received on a particular key.
Sorry.
The zone whose key range includes
that key number will be activated.
And that zone will generate
a single active voice,
which is the actual audio
producing engine of the system.
In contrast, let's look at a slightly
more complicated patch,
which is layered.
It's layered layers.
In this case, we have two,
both of which extend the
entire range of the keyboard.
But each one has its own
individual set of zones,
so you're going to have different samples
in each associated with each layer.
When a MIDI note-on is
received by this instrument,
Because we have two zones
whose key ranges intercept
that particular key number,
we have two zones become activated.
and you generate two voices.
So the idea is that a complex
instrument may very well
generate a set of active voices,
which will combine to produce the
complex timbre of that instrument.
Here's another example
of a complex patch.
This one,
instead of having overlapping layers,
has two complete layers which
divide the keyboard approximately
into one-third and two-third.
The bottom one is dedicated to
producing the timbre of a double bass,
which means its zones are
going to contain samples
that are double bass samples.
And the upper half of the
keyboard is a vibraphone preset,
which has its own zones representing
the samples for the vibraphone.
So this is a traditional
split keyboard patch.
Okay, what I'd like to do now
is have Michael back up,
and we're going to see how we can
audition and edit one of these,
a patch that is loaded into the
sampler using its custom view.
What we have on the screen right
now is the custom view for the
AU Sampler in its compact form.
What's displaying by
default is the keyboard,
which allows you to audition the preset.
What we have loaded here first
is an example of a simple preset,
which has,
like the simple example we gave,
a single layer and
several zones under it.
If we open up the editor
portion of the window,
We can see on the left a list of
whatever layers are present in the file,
plus the zones underneath them.
When the layer is selected in that list,
you can see on the right we have
an editor for the settings that
are available for the layer,
and when we select each of the zones,
we get an editor showing the
characteristics of that zone.
The large rectangles at the
bottom are simply a display of
the currently selected zone and
its location on the keyboard.
Horizontally, we're displaying the key
numbers that it's active over,
and vertically we're
displaying its velocity range.
If we go back to the layer on the left,
and then bring up the parameters button
on the right-hand side of the screen,
here's where we have access
to all of what I was talking
about as the articulation data,
which includes envelope settings,
filter settings,
any low-frequency oscillators
that might be available.
All these are settable here.
And as I said,
each layer that you have in your
instrument will have its own set of these
that can be configured independently.
Okay, let's bring up a second preset,
which is an example of a
slightly more complicated one.
In this case, we have a vibraphone,
which has two layers,
one of which has been dedicated to
the attack portion of the vibraphone,
the second to the sustain portion.
Let's just audition that for a
minute so they can hear that.
To let you hear the way this is
divided up as a complex instrument,
would you please mute the one
that's for the sustain portion?
And now if we play this back-- Oh,
we got the wrong one.
Let's try the other one.
It's a little more obvious when we--
There we go.
So now all you're hearing is
the layer which represents the
attack portion of the sound.
So this is an example of how the layers
combine to produce a complex timbre.
Each note on when this instrument is
completely active produces two voices.
And lastly,
what I'd like to do is show you
that the presets which are being
loaded and auditioned here are simply
small files which are available
and accessible directly through
the file system as .au preset files.
We're seeing the path,
the default path to these here.
And these are the files that can be
moved from machine to machine or to
an iOS application in order to be
able to play these files in a game
or in an application on your phone.
So what I'm going to -- I'll be
talking about that again in a minute.
Thank you very much, Michael.
Let's talk a little bit about how
you can configure the sampler.
We have three methods for loading
what I call a patch or a preset.
The first is using the
files that I just described,
which are AU preset files,
text files that can be loaded.
The second is that you can build up a
custom patch from a set of individual
audio files that you provide.
Or third, as I mentioned earlier,
you can load an instrument definition
from a DLS bank or a SoundFont 2 file.
Let's look at each of those
in a little more detail.
Firstly,
loading a patch from an AU preset file.
The first thing that's most important
if you're under iOS is to make
sure that all of the resources
that are used by that patch,
which means any of the
samples associated with it,
plus the patch itself,
are part of your application
bundle's resource directory
so that they're accessible to
the sampler when it's loading.
The second thing you do,
and we'll be providing some sample
code for this in a future seed,
is to convert that preset file
into a property list using a
couple of standard API calls.
I won't go into those now.
And then thirdly,
you take that property list that
you have and load it into the
sampler using the set property call.
This is a property of the type
that Michael talked about earlier,
using this 1K audio unit
property class info,
and that will load that
preset into the sampler.
Secondly, creating a patch from
a set of audio files.
Again,
all of your files must be available to
the sampler by being in your applications
bundle if you are running iOS.
And if you want these individual files
to be loaded and produce a zone which
has information such as we talked about,
which is like key range and
looping and things of that sort,
you can provide that information
to the sampler by editing
the file's instrument chunk.
This is something which is
available in core audio file format,
the CAF file format.
If you do that,
when these files are loaded,
that information will be transferred
directly into the zone so that you
can actually have a pre-configured
set of files that when they're loaded,
they'll, for example,
map to your keyboard in an orderly
fashion that you can control in advance.
And lastly, we can load patches directly
from DLS sound banks.
As I said, once again,
make sure that all of your file content
is available to the sampler if you're
under iOS by putting it in your bundle.
And we have a property that you
can pass to the sampler where
you pass the URL to your bank,
plus a bank ID and an instrument ID,
which is the way in which
presets are identified in
both DLS and sound font banks.
And that will load that
instrument definition in.
All of the properties that are
present in the DLS or sound font
bank will be translated into a form
that the sampler understands itself.
What I'd like to show
you now is a quick demo.
having the two presets that we saw
earlier auditioned on a desktop
machine loaded directly into an app.
Okay, there's not much to look at.
I am an audio guy.
All I have here is two buttons
representing trombone and vibraphone.
If you remember,
those are the two presets that we
auditioned on the desktop using AU Lab.
If I select the trombone
and have my audition keys...
We have the exact same timbre
brought over to an iOS app simply by
bringing that AU preset file plus its
associated samples over and loading
them into my bundle and writing
an app which made those function
calls that I showed you a minute ago.
The vibraphone.
Ooh, a little loud.
Oh, well.
Now I'd like to bring Michael back up to
talk about the introduction of Core MIDI,
which is now available in iOS 5.
Now we're going to talk about this
portion in the upper right-hand corner,
which is getting MIDI to your iOS device.
Under iOS 4.3 or later,
you can use Core MIDI,
which is a set of services
where applications can
communicate with MIDI devices,
and it provides abstractions for
interacting with a complete network.
As you can see in the diagram, we have,
for example,
a MIDI keyboard that's connected to
an iPad via a camera connection kit.
Any MIDI that occurs on that
device will be sent to the
MIDI server in its own process,
and then it will communicate with your
application via the core MIDI APIs.
A bit of terminology about MIDI devices.
When we use the term device,
we're referring specifically
to a piece of hardware.
This piece of hardware can contain
Endpoints, and these can be either source
or destination endpoints,
depending on whether they
receive or send MIDI data.
When an application running on
an iPad wants to get information
about devices that are connected
and receive notifications,
for example, when something's plugged in,
it first needs to create a client object,
at which point the MIDI server will
then call that application's MIDI notify
proc and tell it when a device changes,
connected or disconnected, for example,
or if any properties on
that specific device change.
So now we have a keyboard.
We're plugging it in.
The MIDI server process gets that
information and communicates to the
application via MIDI notify proc.
Looking at those types of properties
that we can get information about,
those include name of, say, a device,
or even a particular
endpoint if it's named,
manufacturer information,
whether that device is offline or not,
hardware settings,
such as whether that piece
of hardware supports general
MIDI or can transmit clock.
We can also get information
about what patch it has loaded,
et cetera.
Let's look at that in code.
As I mentioned,
we used a MIDI notify proc to
register a handler with core
MIDI that it will then call back.
As you can see here in this code,
we're specifically handling the
KMIDIMESSAGE property changed.
And depending on what
that means to our app,
for example,
if we wanted to display a picture
of a keyboard when it's connected,
we can then do that here.
We then create a MIDI client,
passing a string for
the name of our client,
our notification handler that we're
registering with the MIDI server,
and then we get back a MIDI client,
which we'll use in further calls.
So now the more interesting bit,
getting MIDI data to our application.
First, we create a MIDI input port.
Then the MIDI server will
call our MIDI read proc when
MIDI messages are received.
And the information that we get is a
packet list containing those MIDI events.
So for example,
when the user plays E on our keyboard,
the MIDI server gets that note on,
and then calls the MIDI read
proc in our application,
passing the packet list of data.
Let's look at that in more detail.
MIDI packets are variable length.
So that means that when we're
getting this packet list,
in addition to the timestamp,
which is the time, an absolute time that
that event occurred,
we have a length that tells us
how much data is in that packet.
We can get the first packet by
getting element zero in that array,
but we need to use MIDI packet next
to retrieve successive packets.
You'll see that in my
programming example.
We're registering our MIDI read proc.
Here, we're processing packets by
calling MIDI packet next.
And those packets that we receive,
their data is just standard MIDI,
and it's up to your application to use
the MIDI spec to decode those packets.
We call MIDI input port create,
getting our client that
we previously created,
specifying the name for our port,
the callback proc,
and then we get back our MIDI port,
which we can then use to
connect to destinations,
for example.
Finally, if our application
wants to send MIDI data,
we use MIDI send with a packet list
of the events that we're sending.
We first need to create a MIDI output
port by calling MIDI output port create.
And then we specify where
we want that data to go.
And off it goes.
It's that simple.
Now, we also have the capability of not
only sending and receiving MIDI events
from locally connected devices,
we can also get devices
that exist over a network.
In this case, we have an API called
MIDI Network Session that uses
Bonjour to register peers.
So we can use the MIDI Session
default session object and
set its enabled property,
and that registers our peer with Bonjour.
Saying, "Hey, I'm here.
Anybody interested in
communicating with me,
go ahead." And we can also
specify a connection policy
limiting who can connect to us.
So each peer that wants to
communicate in this manner
creates a MIDI Network Session
object and enables a connection.
Now, on the other hand,
when we want to make that connection,
We use the MIDI network host
API to specify which of those
Bonjour peers we're connecting to.
And the name, address, and port,
we just use using the
NS Network Session API.
And there's a number of other
facilities and network hosts,
if you have other types of
information other than the name,
address, or port that you can use.
Please see the header for more details.
Once you've created
that MIDI network host,
you simply call connect with host,
and then you're done.
At that point, your MIDI notification
proc will get called,
telling you what devices are available.
You'll get your MIDI read
proc called with MIDI data,
and that's it.
So that includes my talk on Core MIDI.
I'd now like to return
the presentation to Doug,
who will be talking
about the MIDI sequencer.
Thank you, Michael.
I'd like to start this part of the
presentation by doing another demo.
Once again, my minimalist application.
But what you'll need to do is
imagine that you are creating a game.
And in this game,
you want the player to be driving around
the countryside in an antique automobile.
After a while you realize
this is sort of boring,
so you decide you want to make
sure that when the automobile is
traveling up and down the hills,
the speed of your music changes.
As it goes up a hill...
down the other side very quickly.
Now you might be able to figure
out how to do that using a set
of pre-created audio files,
but it might be quite complicated.
What about if your automobile were
to travel up to the very top of
a hill and crash into a church?
That kind of a musical transition would
likely be quite difficult to do with
a set of pre-existing musical files.
But using the music sequencing API,
that operation is extremely simple.
So let's talk about how that all works.
So the music sequencing
API allows you to record,
edit, save,
and playback music events that are
organized in a time-based fashion.
By music events here,
we're not just talking about MIDI.
Well, we're talking about MIDI,
but we're talking about any event which
is synchronized in time with other events
to control your musical performance.
So that includes -- that
does include all MIDI events,
but we'll talk about some
other things as well.
The complete set of API is
declared in the header that
you see on the screen now.
Let's talk about the sort of parts
that go into the sequencing API.
First, we have the music sequence.
This data type is the actual storage
place for all of the information that
is part of your musical performance.
And that information is
organized into tracks.
One track will always be a tempo track,
which allows you to store
information about the rate at
which the music plays back,
which is usually defined
in beats per minute.
All the other tracks in the
file will be event tracks,
which contain information, like we said,
about music events,
which we'll be talking
about here in a second.
Next, we have the music track itself.
These are contained within
the music sequencer.
In other words,
they belong to a particular sequencer.
And they are a time-ordered
collection of events.
These events can be of two types.
MIDI events, like I said,
which includes note on, note off,
controller events,
meta events relating to, you know,
you can add tags and things of that sort,
anything that is defined
by the MIDI specification.
And secondly,
it allows you to store audio
unit parameter automation data.
Now, this is something which
allows you to take parameters,
such as Mike described earlier,
and give them time points so that
over the course of a performance,
the parameter values change
in a way which is synchronized
with your other events.
This is very powerful when you're
working with a fairly complex audio
unit graph because it allows you to
manipulate various parameters and make
sure that everything happens precisely
synchronized the way you would want it.
And in addition,
we're able to add arbitrary user
data events into the audio unit.
So, this is a very powerful tool.
It's very useful for you to use.
And finally,
it allows you to use the music
track so that during playback,
you can trigger things to happen in
your application that are not directly
related to the playback of the sequence.
And lastly,
we have the music player itself, which,
when it's associated with
a given music sequence,
allows you to convert that
sequence into a performance.
Now let's look a little more about what
each of these components does for you.
First, the music sequence.
This is the place where you add, remove,
and merge the music tracks.
In addition,
this is the place where you can
read and write MIDI files to disk.
And in addition,
it has a series of utilities that let
you convert between beats and time.
This is useful if you're trying to
display your events in a user interface,
where you want to maybe provide the
user with an alternate way of displaying
where the events are occurring.
The music track, as I said,
part of the music sequence,
allows you to add, move,
and clear music events.
It has properties on it which
allow you to mute a track,
solo it, control whether the track
loops during performance,
and several other things
that you can do with it.
A very important aspect of a track is
that it is responsible for associating
the events that are contained within
it with a particular destination.
The destination in this case is
the particular portion of the
system that is going to respond to
the events that are in that track.
The two primary places where you
might send things are to audio
units that are part of a graph.
For example,
an instrument like the sampler.
Note-on events would be sent
to an instrument like that.
You might have parameters which you
want to have control a sound effect,
perhaps in the same
way as Michael showed,
where you might want to be
adjusting your delay time,
and have this all part of this
synchronized performance that is
being controlled by the sequence.
MIDI events can also be sent out to
external MIDI devices using the core
MIDI system that Michael described.
This would allow you to take
a sequence and not only play
back music on the device,
but also play it back on the device.
You could also use the track as
a way to control the playback.
You could control the
playback on the device itself,
or your desktop or your device,
but it could actually control
an external device synchronously
with the playback internally.
So you could create an entire ensemble
of internal and external devices.
And in addition,
the track supports the ability
to iterate through its events,
which is something you would need to use
if you were going to build an interactive
program which displayed all the events
that were in all of your tracks.
And there's a thing called a music event
iterator which allows you to do that.
And the music player, as I said,
the part that actually creates,
makes it become a performance,
supports all the playback controls,
starting, stopping,
adjusting the position,
and also adjusting the playback rate.
In the app that I demonstrated for you,
that was the function that I used
to basically slow us down and speed
us up as we traveled the mountains.
And we have additional utilities
here for converting between host
time to beats and vice versa,
which is very important when
you are reading in MIDI events
from the outside world,
which are tagged with host times,
and you want to turn those into a
format that the sequence understands,
which is typically in beats.
We'll talk about that more in a minute.
So let's walk through what happens when
you load a MIDI file into a sequence.
This is useful because it shows the
relationship between all the components
that go into actually producing
a performance with that sequence.
So first thing you do is we assume
we have a sequence that we've
created using our creation API that
I don't actually describe here.
We have a function music
sequence file load,
where you hand it your
empty new sequence,
the path to the MIDI file
you want to load,
and some other properties.
First thing that happens when you
do that is the tempo track is loaded
in from the file if it's present.
If it isn't, the sequence will create a
default tempo track for you.
Next, any tracks contained within
that MIDI file will be pulled
in with their associated events,
and the structure of that file
in terms of the layout of the
tracks and the organization of the
events will be mirrored exactly
in the sequence that's created.
Next,
the sequence creates a default AU graph,
which always contains a
single instrument at the top,
plus a limiter to just
help control the volume,
and of course,
the necessary output audio unit.
Lastly, all the events in all the tracks
that are in that file have their
destination set so that the events
will control the instrument that
is at the top of that graph.
Any node-ons, any controller events,
anything of that sort will
be sent to that instrument.
That's exactly what was
happening in my demo.
In that case, there's just a single track
with the piano music in it,
and the node-ons and node-offs
from that piano music were being
sent to an instance of a sampler
that was built automatically
by the load of the SMF file.
To play the sequence,
we create a music player and then
call music player set sequence
to associate the two together.
And music players start.
We have, and of course we can stop,
we can pause, and we can set position.
And the function there, the last one,
Music Player Set Play Rate Scaler,
is what I use to adjust
the speed of the playback.
There'll be a lot of instances, though,
where loading a sequence from a
file is not what you want to do.
You want to have a lot more control,
and perhaps you want to
create something from scratch.
So you might want to create a
MIDI recorder sequencer application,
for example, a drum machine where you can
actually interactively add note-on
and note-off events on the screen
and then hear them played back.
Or you might want to play a
MIDI sequence that you know
has multiple instruments in it,
and so you need to have a graph
which is going to have more
instruments than just the default one.
Or you might want to create a sequence
which has a large number of tracks
which contain this automated parameter
information if you wanted to create
some very complex system where things
are being controlled in real time.
Way more information is being
controlled than you could
control having a user interface.
To create a custom sequence,
we pretty much follow the same set
of steps as you saw automated in
the process of loading an SMF file.
We create an empty sequence.
We create our own custom graph
that meets our particular needs.
We add any number of tracks to
that sequence that we need and
add events to those tracks.
Usually,
tracks are designed to group events which
are targeted at a particular audio unit,
just for clarity,
but it's up to you how you organize.
And then the last thing you do is make
sure that each of your tracks is targeted
to some destination so that those
events will be recognized and played
back when the sequence is performed.
Here's an example of a custom sequence.
In this case,
the sequence itself looks very
much like the one we saw before.
We have a tempo track and
a couple of event tracks.
But note that we have created a custom
AU graph with two instruments in it,
and each of the tracks has been set to
play back through a different instrument.
Lastly, you might want to actually
turn this into a system which
can record a live performance,
which would be coming in for
MIDI events sent from the outside.
And you can synchronize the recording
of the live events with what's playing
back by simply listening for MIDI events
on a MIDI input using the system that
Michael described just a few minutes ago.
The events that is,
as the events come in,
they are tagged with a system time,
which can then be converted by the
utility and the music player into
the exact beat and measure that is
currently active in the playback.
And this allows those events to be placed
precisely in the track at a place where
you get a time-synchronized recording
of your live data combined with whatever
is playing back through the sequence.
All right.
So in summary, what we've seen today as
technologies for music.
First of all,
we saw how audio units can be
used as building blocks in music
processing and synthesis applications.
We saw the AU Sampler,
which allows you to
create simple or very,
very rich,
complex instrumental patches for use for
musical and sound effects purposes in
iOS or Mac OS X games and applications.
We saw how Core MIDI allows you to
send and receive audio -- sorry,
send and receive MIDI under
both iOS and Mac OS X,
either to a locally connected
MIDI device or via the network.
And lastly,
we saw how the music sequencing
API allows you to add -- to record,
add, create, edit, save,
and playback music events to create
a complex musical performance.
I'd like to invite you to a
related session which follows
upon this one right away,
which is audio session
management for iOS.
This will be of great interest to
anybody who is working with anything
that uses audio seriously under iOS.
We're very excited to provide you
with these new technologies and are
very much looking forward to see
what you're able to do with them.
Lastly, if you have questions and we're
looking for more information,
here's a list of
resources for all of you.
Our media technology evangelist,
plus where to look for documentation.
Of course, there's a WWDC website
which has information.
And, of course,
our wonderful Apple Developer Forums,
where you'll find us lurking.
Thank you very much for coming,
and I really hope that you enjoy
the rest of your stay here.